-=Google Cloud Platform Terms=-

Abbreviations:
GCP: Google Cloud Platform
GCE: Google Compute Engine
GAE: Google App Engine
GKE: Google Kubernetes Engine
GCR: Google Cloud Repository
IAM: Identity and Access Management
K8: Kubernetes
HPA: Horizontal Pool Autoscaler (for Kubernetes clusters/deployments)
PVC: Persistent Volume Claim (Persistent Disks)


-=Google Kubernetes Engine Key Terms=-

Node: A single virtual or physical machine in a Kubernetes cluster.

Cluster: A group of nodes firewalled from the internet, that are the primary compute resources managed by Kubernetes.

Edge router: A router that enforces the firewall policy for your cluster. This could be a gateway managed by a cloud provider or a physical piece of hardware.

Cluster network: A set of links, logical or physical, that facilitate communication within a cluster according to the Kubernetes networking model.

Service: A Kubernetes Service that identifies a set of pods using label selectors. Unless mentioned otherwise, Services are assumed to have virtual IPs only routable within the cluster network.



-= CI/CD =-

Continuous Integration:
Merging development features into the main code branch regularly, perhaps several times a day. Changes are validated using automated tests. Prevents integration headaches that arise with large code merges.

Continuous Deployment:
Extension of continuous integration where development occurs in short cycles, allowing features to be reliably released at any time. Automated processes allow releases to occur at greater speed and frequency.

Jenkins:
Open source automation server that lets you flexibly orchestrate your build, test, and deployment pipelines (CI/CD)
  - Easy to install and configure
  - Extensible via a plugin architecture
  - Highly scalable and can run on a cluster of VMs
  - Use containers ot run jobs on different OS and Cloud Environemnts (AWS or GCP) via build executers

Helm: Package manager to confiure and deploy Kubernetes apps. You describe your apps using Helm Charts

